Other common HR Interview questions
While we’ve covered the most basic ones for freshers applying for jobs/internships, there are a few more questions that you can prepare for before an interview. 

 

1. Where do you see yourself in 5 years? 

Don’t just talk about how you want to see yourself at a senior position in the organisation. Think holistically and practically. Take some time to think about the answer before the interview. 

Of course, they want to know if you’re interested in staying with the company long term. But that’s only part of the reason why they asked you this. They want to also understand what they can offer you and what kind of growth you see for yourself over the next 5 years. 

Companies want to retain people who are willing to grow with the industry and the company. Learning and up-skilling yourself over the years and keeping in touch with what the latest trends of the industry are will help you emerge as a strong professional. 

Just saying, “I want to be at a senior position” isn’t going to cut it. 

You can say something like, “I see how the industry is changing so fast. I would like to spend the next few years mastering skills that would make me a strong professional and a strong manager. I see myself at a position of responsibility where I can innovate and make an impact. I would like to see myself grow as a professional and with the organisation.” 

Be specific if you know what the skills are. You can talk about how important they are in a role like yours and how acquiring them will help you actually do well in the organisation. 

 

2. What did you like most about the role in the job description? 

Here, you should talk about what interested you most about the role and how it made you realise that you will enjoy the work and are a good fit for the role. 

 

3. If you’re transitioning from another job, the interviewer may ask you why you decided to quit your previous job. 

This can be a tricky question to answer. However, the safest bet is to explain that you are looking for better opportunities to grow professionally. If the reason for you leaving your job was that it was redundant and the work was not challenging you anymore, you can explain that. You can say, “I had been following the same processes and the work had become quite redundant. I don’t mind following processes; however, in order to grow, I would like to work on things that help me learn more and that challenge me.”. 

 

4. What did you understand from the job description? Do you understand the roles and responsibilities well? If yes, what did you understand?  

Here, you’ll have to explain what you understand the work in the role would look like. In case you have any questions about any task that’s mentioned in the JD, you can ask the interviewer that. 

 

5. Follow up questions about your education, any gaps between education, work, etc and what did you do at a particular internship or event. 

If you’d taken a gap year to study, the interviewer may ask you what you were doing during the time, whether you got the desired outcome. If you didn’t get the desired outcome, then what was the reason, etc. These are just trying to understand your journey so far. 

 

6. Talk about your experience in college. How was it for you?

Same as above. You can talk about your experience in college, the activities you loved doing, the clubs or societies you were a part of and how you were academically. You can talk about how you developed interest in the field you’re applying for and what you did during college to learn more about it or experience it. 

 

7. What was your favourite subject in college?

This question is to understand whether you’re applying for a field that’s completely different from your interests and to understand why it is so. It’s not necessary for people to follow the exact same stream they took in college. So, you can be honest and explain what your favourite subject is and why. Then, if it’s something that’s aligned with your role, you can say that you’ve been interested in the field since college and you’re excited to practice the things you’ve learnt. 

On the other hand, if the subject is not directly related to your role, you can explain why you liked the subject and why you switched to the field you’ve applied for.

 

8. What if we hire you & you get a better option, will you leave?

This again is a tricky question. 

We all apply for multiple jobs and internships. So, it’s not a surprise for the interviewer if you say you’ve applied to other organisations. 

If this kind of a question is asked, you should try to be honest and transparent about your choice. 

Let’s take an example: 

Company X pays very well, is closer to your home, and has a lot to offer in terms of professional growth. The work culture is hectic and can be a bit stressful sometimes. 

Company Y pays slightly less, is close to your home, and again, it offers a lot in terms of professional growth and has a great work culture.

In this case, you may aim for Company X because it pays well. However, maybe there are few other factors that Company Y is better at - for example, work culture. You may prefer one company more than the other. 

Or, maybe there’s another company that pays better?

In such cases, whenever you’re applying to internships or jobs, you should know your priority and the reasons for choosing that as your priority. 

You can answer honestly and say, “I would prefer Company X because they pay better and as of now, I need to take my finances into the decision making as well.”. Don’t be blunt or rude. But calmly and politely, share your honest opinion and the reasons for it. 

Don’t lie because the interviewer has enough experience to know if you’re being honest or not. 

If the interviewer asks this question and you truly would prefer their organisation, mention the reasons why. Don’t butter them. But honestly tell them why joining their organisation is going to be beneficial for you. 

 

9. If you’re still in college, how will you manage both your studies and college? 

Here, you can talk about how you will balance both. You can explain your schedule to the interviewer and then explain how you will spend an adequate amount of time on both. 

 

10. Will your college give you an NOC?

You may have to take an NOC (No Objection Certificate) if you’re still in college to show that you’re permitted to skip classes and work at the internship/job. If the company requires you to submit this, then you will have to talk to your college professor or at the concerned department to get it done. 

 

The HR interview is a lot like a conversation between you and the interviewer. So, as the conversation and topics come up, you can expect other questions related to your resume, whatever you answer, etc. Be confident and authentic - that’s going to help you answer any question well!
